>> Shirley Wu: I think using React
to render, and D3 to calculate,
is as simple as that,
as simple as those exercises.
But what I do want to talk about, and
this is kind of the parts where React and
D3 don't play so nicely together.
So for all of the things over here,
in the first and second column,
these play really, really well with React.
Because it's essentially D3
doing the calculation and
returning a data object back to you.
But the things that I've highlighted
in here, these four functions,
they need access to
the DOM to do their job.
And so if you can imagine, React already
wants control of the whole DOM so
that it can do its virtual DOM thing, and
it can manage all of the updates and
changes to the DOM.
And so when people say that D3 and
React don't play nicely together,
they're talking about specifically
these few functionality,
and actually also, the third column.
So the third column and these four,
because these are the D3 functionality
that needs direct access to the DOM.
We're going to actually go through
three out of four of these, and
I'll give you an example
of how these work.
But for these specific four
functions where D3 needs to do
the rendering to the DOM,
the way that I usually do it is,
I instantiate the D3 function
in componentDidMount.
I create a group container in render,
an SVG group container.
And then I place the D3
code in componentDidMount
and/or componentDidUpdate.
And the thing that I want to stress over,
and over, and over again is that if
you do decide that you need to use one of
these four functions with your React app.
The thing I must stress over and
over again is never, ever, ever,
ever let D3 and React manage
the same parts of the DOM, ever.
Please, or
else you're going to get hideous bugs.
I still remember four years ago when I
was doing D3 and React together, for
the first time ever.
And I sat there for a whole afternoon
trying to debug this super weird bug
that I just couldn't figure out.
And it turned out it was because
D3 was updating this one
attribute that React also
was trying to update.
And then React was like,
no, and D3 was like, what?
And so, [LAUGH] it was not fun.
It was traumatic enough that I
still remember it four years later.
So please never, ever let D3 and
React manage the same parts.
And that's why when you need
D3 to render something,
you create a group container,
you give it a ref, you pass it to D3.
D3 does everything within
that group container, and
React doesn't need to know about it.
So this is the section that's exceptions,
please proceed with caution, and
please only do it if it's
absolutely necessary.